README.md, before:

# Nova-Toggle 5

A Laravel Nova 5 toggle field that allows quick boolean updates directly from the index view.

![Nova-Toggle 5](https://demo.novafront.dev/images/nova-toggle-github.png)

Demo: [https://demo.novafront.dev](https://demo.novafront.dev)  
User: [demo@novafront.dev](demo@novafront.dev)  
Password: demo1234

![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)
![Nova](https://img.shields.io/badge/Nova-5.x-blue.svg)
![PHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/PHP-8.2+-blue.svg)

## Features

- Quick toggle directly from index view
- Customizable colors for light and dark mode
- Built-in readonly and visibility controls
- Optional help text for different views
- Custom ON/OFF labels with color customization
- Optional toast notification control
- Customizable toast message labels
- Filter support for index views
- Vue 3 Composition API
- Full dark mode support

## Requirements

- PHP 8.2+
- Laravel Nova 5.x
- Laravel 10.x, 11.x, or 12.x

## Installation

```bash
composer require almirhodzic/nova-toggle
```

The service provider will be automatically registered.

## Basic Usage

```php
use AlmirHodzic\NovaToggle\Toggle;

public function fields(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active'),
    ];
}
```

## Configuration

### Colors

#### Toggle Background Colors

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->onColor('#00d5be', '#009689')  // Light mode, Dark mode
    ->offColor('#e5e5e5', '#323f57');
```

#### Bullet Colors

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->onBullet('white')           // Same for both modes
    ->offBullet('white', 'grey'); // Light mode, Dark mode
```

### Labels

#### Custom ON/OFF Text

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->valueLabelText('ON', 'OFF');  // ON label, OFF label
```

#### Label Colors

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->valueLabelText('ON', 'OFF')
    ->valueLabelOnColors('#ffffff')              // ON label color
    ->valueLabelOffColors('#a1a1a1', '#737373'); // OFF label colors (light, dark)
```

### Toast Notifications

#### Custom Toast Label

By default, the toast message uses the resource's `name`, `label`, `title`, or the resource's singular label. You can customize which model attribute to use:

```php
Toggle::make('Show', 'show')
    ->toastLabelKey('question'); // Uses $model->question instead of default
```

**Default fallback order:** `name` → `label` → `title` → resource singular label

#### Disable Toast Notifications

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->toastShow(false); // No toast notification on toggle
```

### Filtering

To make your toggle field filterable in the index view, you need to create a custom filter.

#### Step 1: Create a Filter

```bash
php artisan nova:filter IsActiveFilter
```

#### Step 2: Implement the Filter

```php
<?php

namespace App\Nova\Filters;

use Illuminate\Contracts\Database\Eloquent\Builder;
use Laravel\Nova\Filters\Filter;
use Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest;

class IsActiveFilter extends Filter
{
    public $name = 'Active Status';

    public $component = 'select-filter';

    public function apply(NovaRequest $request, Builder $query, mixed $value): Builder
    {
        if ($value === 'active') {
            return $query->where('is_active', true);
        }

        if ($value === 'inactive') {
            return $query->where('is_active', false);
        }

        return $query;
    }

    public function options(NovaRequest $request): array
    {
        return [
            'Active' => 'active',
            'Inactive' => 'inactive',
        ];
    }
}
```

#### Step 3: Register the Filter in Your Resource

```php
use App\Nova\Filters\IsActiveFilter;

public function filters(NovaRequest $request): array
{
    return [
        new IsActiveFilter,
    ];
}
```

#### Alternative: Boolean Filter (Checkboxes)

If you prefer checkboxes instead of a dropdown:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Nova\Filters;

use Illuminate\Contracts\Database\Eloquent\Builder;
use Laravel\Nova\Filters\BooleanFilter;
use Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest;

class IsActiveFilter extends BooleanFilter
{
    public $name = 'Active Status';

    public function apply(NovaRequest $request, Builder $query, mixed $value): Builder
    {
        if (isset($value['active'])) {
            return $query->where('is_active', $value['active']);
        }

        if (isset($value['inactive'])) {
            return $query->where('is_active', !$value['inactive']);
        }

        return $query;
    }

    public function options(NovaRequest $request): array
    {
        return [
            'Active' => 'active',
            'Inactive' => 'inactive',
        ];
    }
}
```

Now use

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->filterable()
    ...
```

### Help Text

Add contextual help text for different views:

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->helpOnIndex('Toggle to activate/deactivate')
    ->helpOnForm('Enable this option to activate the feature')
    ->helpOnDetail('Current activation status');
```

### Visibility & Access Control

#### Hide Based on Condition

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->hideWhen(function ($request, $resource) {
        return $resource->status === 'archived';
    });
```

#### Readonly Based on Condition

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->readonlyWhen(function ($request, $resource) {
        return !$request->user()->isAdmin();
    });
```

#### Guard-Based Access Control

By default, the toggle checks authentication guards defined in your config. Create a config file:

```php
// config/nova-toggle.php
return [
    'guards' => ['web', 'admin'],
];
```

## Complete Example

```php
use AlmirHodzic\NovaToggle\Toggle;
use App\Nova\Filters\IsActiveFilter;

public function fields(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        ID::make()->sortable(),

        Text::make('Name'),

        Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
            ->filterable()
            ->onColor('#10b981', '#059669')
            ->offColor('#ef4444', '#dc2626')
            ->onBullet('#ffffff')
            ->offBullet('#ffffff')
            ->valueLabelText('ON', 'OFF')
            ->valueLabelOnColors('#ffffff')
            ->valueLabelOffColors('#fecaca', '#fca5a5')
            ->helpOnIndex('Click to toggle status')
            ->helpOnForm('Enable to make this item visible')
            ->toastShow(true)
            ->readonlyWhen(function ($request, $resource) {
                return !$request->user()->can('edit', $resource);
            }),

        Toggle::make('Featured', 'is_featured')
            ->onColor('#f59e0b')
            ->offColor('#6b7280')
            ->valueLabelText('★', '☆')
            ->toastShow(false)
            ->hideWhen(function ($request, $resource) {
                return !$resource->is_active;
            }),

        Toggle::make('Show FAQ', 'show')
            ->toastLabelKey('question') // Uses $faq->question for toast message
            ->helpOnIndex('Toggle visibility'),
    ];
}

public function filters(NovaRequest $request): array
{
    return [
        new IsActiveFilter,
    ];
}
```

## API Reference

### Methods

| Method                  | Parameters                                           | Description                            |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `onColor()`             | `string $light, ?string $dark = null`                | Background color when ON               |
| `offColor()`            | `string $light, ?string $dark = null`                | Background color when OFF              |
| `onBullet()`            | `string $light, ?string $dark = null`                | Bullet color when ON                   |
| `offBullet()`           | `string $light, ?string $dark = null`                | Bullet color when OFF                  |
| `valueLabelText()`      | `?string $onLabel = 'ON', ?string $offLabel = 'OFF'` | Custom label text                      |
| `valueLabelOnColors()`  | `string $light, ?string $dark = null`                | ON label color                         |
| `valueLabelOffColors()` | `string $light, ?string $dark = null`                | OFF label color                        |
| `toastShow()`           | `bool $show = true`                                  | Show/hide toast notification on toggle |
| `toastLabelKey()`       | `string $key`                                        | Model attribute to use for toast label |
| `hideWhen()`            | `callable $callback`                                 | Hide field based on condition          |
| `readonlyWhen()`        | `callable $callback`                                 | Make readonly based on condition       |
| `helpOnIndex()`         | `string $text`                                       | Help text on index view                |
| `helpOnForm()`          | `string $text`                                       | Help text on form view                 |
| `helpOnDetail()`        | `string $text`                                       | Help text on detail view               |

### Default Colors

| State          | Light Mode | Dark Mode |
| -------------- | ---------- | --------- |
| ON Background  | `#00d5be`  | `#009689` |
| OFF Background | `#e5e5e5`  | `#323f57` |
| ON Bullet      | `#ffffff`  | `#ffffff` |
| OFF Bullet     | `#ffffff`  | `#ffffff` |
| ON Label       | `#ffffff`  | `#ffffff` |
| OFF Label      | `#a1a1a1`  | `#737373` |

### Default Behavior

| Option          | Default Value                                                          |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `toastShow`     | `true`                                                                 |
| `toastLabelKey` | `null` (uses fallback: name → label → title → resource singular label) |

## Bug or Issues

Found a Bug or Issue? Please report here: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/almirhodzic/nova-toggle/issues)  
We appreciate your feedback to help improve this package.

## Support

- [Issues](https://github.com/almirhodzic/nova-toggle/issues)
- [Source Code](https://github.com/almirhodzic/nova-toggle)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

## Credits

- [Almir Hodzic](https://frontbyte.ch)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

---

By [Frontbyte](https://frontbyte.ch)

Commit message:

Document update action logging in Nova
Added a note to the README indicating that update actions are now logged in Nova's action events.

README.md, after:

# Nova-Toggle 5

A Laravel Nova 5 toggle field that allows quick boolean updates directly from the index view.

![Nova-Toggle 5](https://demo.novafront.dev/images/nova-toggle-github.png)

Demo: [https://demo.novafront.dev](https://demo.novafront.dev)  
User: [demo@novafront.dev](demo@novafront.dev)  
Password: demo1234

![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)
![Nova](https://img.shields.io/badge/Nova-5.x-blue.svg)
![PHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/PHP-8.2+-blue.svg)

## Features

- Quick toggle directly from index view
- Customizable colors for light and dark mode
- Built-in readonly and visibility controls
- Optional help text for different views
- Custom ON/OFF labels with color customization
- Optional toast notification control
- Customizable toast message labels
- Filter support for index views
- Logs the update action in Nova's action events
- Vue 3 Composition API
- Full dark mode support

## Requirements

- PHP 8.2+
- Laravel Nova 5.x
- Laravel 10.x, 11.x, or 12.x

## Installation

```bash
composer require almirhodzic/nova-toggle
```

The service provider will be automatically registered.

## Basic Usage

```php
use AlmirHodzic\NovaToggle\Toggle;

public function fields(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active'),
    ];
}
```

## Configuration

### Colors

#### Toggle Background Colors

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->onColor('#00d5be', '#009689')  // Light mode, Dark mode
    ->offColor('#e5e5e5', '#323f57');
```

#### Bullet Colors

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->onBullet('white')           // Same for both modes
    ->offBullet('white', 'grey'); // Light mode, Dark mode
```

### Labels

#### Custom ON/OFF Text

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->valueLabelText('ON', 'OFF');  // ON label, OFF label
```

#### Label Colors

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->valueLabelText('ON', 'OFF')
    ->valueLabelOnColors('#ffffff')              // ON label color
    ->valueLabelOffColors('#a1a1a1', '#737373'); // OFF label colors (light, dark)
```

### Toast Notifications

#### Custom Toast Label

By default, the toast message uses the resource's `name`, `label`, `title`, or the resource's singular label. You can customize which model attribute to use:

```php
Toggle::make('Show', 'show')
    ->toastLabelKey('question'); // Uses $model->question instead of default
```

**Default fallback order:** `name` → `label` → `title` → resource singular label

#### Disable Toast Notifications

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->toastShow(false); // No toast notification on toggle
```

### Filtering

To make your toggle field filterable in the index view, you need to create a custom filter.

#### Step 1: Create a Filter

```bash
php artisan nova:filter IsActiveFilter
```

#### Step 2: Implement the Filter

```php
<?php

namespace App\Nova\Filters;

use Illuminate\Contracts\Database\Eloquent\Builder;
use Laravel\Nova\Filters\Filter;
use Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest;

class IsActiveFilter extends Filter
{
    public $name = 'Active Status';

    public $component = 'select-filter';

    public function apply(NovaRequest $request, Builder $query, mixed $value): Builder
    {
        if ($value === 'active') {
            return $query->where('is_active', true);
        }

        if ($value === 'inactive') {
            return $query->where('is_active', false);
        }

        return $query;
    }

    public function options(NovaRequest $request): array
    {
        return [
            'Active' => 'active',
            'Inactive' => 'inactive',
        ];
    }
}
```

#### Step 3: Register the Filter in Your Resource

```php
use App\Nova\Filters\IsActiveFilter;

public function filters(NovaRequest $request): array
{
    return [
        new IsActiveFilter,
    ];
}
```

#### Alternative: Boolean Filter (Checkboxes)

If you prefer checkboxes instead of a dropdown:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Nova\Filters;

use Illuminate\Contracts\Database\Eloquent\Builder;
use Laravel\Nova\Filters\BooleanFilter;
use Laravel\Nova\Http\Requests\NovaRequest;

class IsActiveFilter extends BooleanFilter
{
    public $name = 'Active Status';

    public function apply(NovaRequest $request, Builder $query, mixed $value): Builder
    {
        if (isset($value['active'])) {
            return $query->where('is_active', $value['active']);
        }

        if (isset($value['inactive'])) {
            return $query->where('is_active', !$value['inactive']);
        }

        return $query;
    }

    public function options(NovaRequest $request): array
    {
        return [
            'Active' => 'active',
            'Inactive' => 'inactive',
        ];
    }
}
```

Now use

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->filterable()
    ...
```

### Help Text

Add contextual help text for different views:

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->helpOnIndex('Toggle to activate/deactivate')
    ->helpOnForm('Enable this option to activate the feature')
    ->helpOnDetail('Current activation status');
```

### Visibility & Access Control

#### Hide Based on Condition

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->hideWhen(function ($request, $resource) {
        return $resource->status === 'archived';
    });
```

#### Readonly Based on Condition

```php
Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
    ->readonlyWhen(function ($request, $resource) {
        return !$request->user()->isAdmin();
    });
```

#### Guard-Based Access Control

By default, the toggle checks authentication guards defined in your config. Create a config file:

```php
// config/nova-toggle.php
return [
    'guards' => ['web', 'admin'],
];
```

## Complete Example

```php
use AlmirHodzic\NovaToggle\Toggle;
use App\Nova\Filters\IsActiveFilter;

public function fields(NovaRequest $request)
{
    return [
        ID::make()->sortable(),

        Text::make('Name'),

        Toggle::make('Active', 'is_active')
            ->filterable()
            ->onColor('#10b981', '#059669')
            ->offColor('#ef4444', '#dc2626')
            ->onBullet('#ffffff')
            ->offBullet('#ffffff')
            ->valueLabelText('ON', 'OFF')
            ->valueLabelOnColors('#ffffff')
            ->valueLabelOffColors('#fecaca', '#fca5a5')
            ->helpOnIndex('Click to toggle status')
            ->helpOnForm('Enable to make this item visible')
            ->toastShow(true)
            ->readonlyWhen(function ($request, $resource) {
                return !$request->user()->can('edit', $resource);
            }),

        Toggle::make('Featured', 'is_featured')
            ->onColor('#f59e0b')
            ->offColor('#6b7280')
            ->valueLabelText('★', '☆')
            ->toastShow(false)
            ->hideWhen(function ($request, $resource) {
                return !$resource->is_active;
            }),

        Toggle::make('Show FAQ', 'show')
            ->toastLabelKey('question') // Uses $faq->question for toast message
            ->helpOnIndex('Toggle visibility'),
    ];
}

public function filters(NovaRequest $request): array
{
    return [
        new IsActiveFilter,
    ];
}
```

## API Reference

### Methods

| Method                  | Parameters                                           | Description                            |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `onColor()`             | `string $light, ?string $dark = null`                | Background color when ON               |
| `offColor()`            | `string $light, ?string $dark = null`                | Background color when OFF              |
| `onBullet()`            | `string $light, ?string $dark = null`                | Bullet color when ON                   |
| `offBullet()`           | `string $light, ?string $dark = null`                | Bullet color when OFF                  |
| `valueLabelText()`      | `?string $onLabel = 'ON', ?string $offLabel = 'OFF'` | Custom label text                      |
| `valueLabelOnColors()`  | `string $light, ?string $dark = null`                | ON label color                         |
| `valueLabelOffColors()` | `string $light, ?string $dark = null`                | OFF label color                        |
| `toastShow()`           | `bool $show = true`                                  | Show/hide toast notification on toggle |
| `toastLabelKey()`       | `string $key`                                        | Model attribute to use for toast label |
| `hideWhen()`            | `callable $callback`                                 | Hide field based on condition          |
| `readonlyWhen()`        | `callable $callback`                                 | Make readonly based on condition       |
| `helpOnIndex()`         | `string $text`                                       | Help text on index view                |
| `helpOnForm()`          | `string $text`                                       | Help text on form view                 |
| `helpOnDetail()`        | `string $text`                                       | Help text on detail view               |

### Default Colors

| State          | Light Mode | Dark Mode |
| -------------- | ---------- | --------- |
| ON Background  | `#00d5be`  | `#009689` |
| OFF Background | `#e5e5e5`  | `#323f57` |
| ON Bullet      | `#ffffff`  | `#ffffff` |
| OFF Bullet     | `#ffffff`  | `#ffffff` |
| ON Label       | `#ffffff`  | `#ffffff` |
| OFF Label      | `#a1a1a1`  | `#737373` |

### Default Behavior

| Option          | Default Value                                                          |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `toastShow`     | `true`                                                                 |
| `toastLabelKey` | `null` (uses fallback: name → label → title → resource singular label) |

## Bug or Issues

Found a Bug or Issue? Please report here: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/almirhodzic/nova-toggle/issues)  
We appreciate your feedback to help improve this package.

## Support

- [Issues](https://github.com/almirhodzic/nova-toggle/issues)
- [Source Code](https://github.com/almirhodzic/nova-toggle)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

## Credits

- [Almir Hodzic](https://frontbyte.ch)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

---

By [Frontbyte](https://frontbyte.ch)
